Add documentation about DateTime and DateTime support in System.Text.… (#13526)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/datetime/datetime-support-in-system-text-json.md

description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON DateTime"
  - "DateTimeOffset"
  - "Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON Reader, JSON Writer, times"
---

# DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json

The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter>, and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> parse and write <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> text representations according to the extended profile of the ISO 8601-1:2019 format, e.g. 2019-07-26T16:59:57-05:00.

Date and time data can be serialized with <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>:

```C#
Product p = new Product();
p.Name = "Banana";
p.ExpiryDate = new DateTime(2019, 7, 26);
string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(p);

/// {"Name":"Banana","ExpiryDate":"2019-07-26T00:00:00"}
```

To deserialize:

```C#
Product p = JsonSerialize.Deserialize<Product>(@"{""Name"":""Banana"",""ExpiryDate"":""2019-07-26T00:00:00""}");
Console.WriteLine(p.Name) // Banana

> Console.WriteLine(p.ExpiryDate) // 

Reviewer: It looks like you meant to include a value after //

```

> 

Reviewer: Include a basic sample of getting a date value from JsonDocument object

text representations are compliant with one of the "R", "l", "O", or "G"
[standard date and time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings),
or you want to write according to one of these formats. This is much faster than using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` and `DateTime(Offset).ToString`

This example shows a custom converter that serializes and deserializes <xref:System.DateTime> values according to
[the "R" standard format](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings#the-rfc1123-r-r-format-specifier):

[!code-csharp[example-showing-utf8-parser-and-formatter](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example2/Program.cs)]

> [!NOTE]
> The "R" standard format will always be 29 characters long.

### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` as a fallback to the serializer's native parsing

If you generally expect your input <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> data to conform to the extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile,
you can use the serializer's native parsing logic. You can also implement a fallback mechanism just in case.

> This example shows that, after failing to parse a <xref:System.DateTime> text representation using <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.TryGetDateTime(System.DateTime)>,

Author: I'm not sure why the ref to <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.TryGetDateTime(System.DateTime)> isn't working.

Reviewer 2: Try \<xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.TryGetDateTime(System.DateTime@)> to indicate the DateTime value is passed by reference.

Author: This worked, thank you.

---
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON, Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON DateTime, JSON DateTimeOffset"
  - "DateTime, DateTimeOffset"
  - "JsonSerializer, Utf8JsonReader, Utf8JsonWriter, JsonElement, JsonDocument"
  - "JSON Serializer, JSON Reader, JSON Writer"
  - "Converter, JSON Converter, DateTime Converter"
  - "ISO, ISO 8601, ISO 8601-1:2019"
---
# DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json

> The System.Text.Json library offers flexible support for formatting and parsing both <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> values.

Reviewer 3: I don't think that statement is true. In fact, we explicitly only support ISO format (so not super flexible), particularly for formatting/parsing. There is **customization** support for flexible **serializing/deserializing** though.

---
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON, Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON DateTime, JSON DateTimeOffset"
  - "DateTime, DateTimeOffset"
  - "JsonSerializer, Utf8JsonReader, Utf8JsonWriter, JsonElement, JsonDocument"
  - "JSON Serializer, JSON Reader, JSON Writer"
  - "Converter, JSON Converter, DateTime Converter"
  - "ISO, ISO 8601, ISO 8601-1:2019"
---
# DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json

The System.Text.Json library parses and writes <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> values according to the ISO 8601:-2019 extended profile.

> [Converters](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.text.json.serialization.jsonconverter-1?view=netcore-3.0) provide custom support for serializing and deserializing with <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>.

Reviewer 3: Similar to serialization/converters, should we mention (and add samples) for what customization could look like for the reader/writer?

Basically, when writing using `Utf8JsonWriter.WriteStringValue(DateTime)`, we use ISO, but the user can custom format their `DateTime` as a string/utf-8 bytes however they like (either using existing `DateTime.ToString(...)` APIs or `Utf8Formatter`), and then pass that in to `Utf8JsonWriter.WriteStringValue(string)` / `Utf8JsonWriter.WriteStringValue(ReadOnlySpan<byte>)`.

Similarly, when reading other formats, `Utf8JsonReader.GetDateTime()` will fail, but `Utf8JsonReader.GetString()` will give you the JSON string which you can then parse yourself as `DateTime` using the more flexibile/forgiving `DateTime.Parse(...)` and `Utf8Parser` APIs.

Author: I'll add this in a follow up PR.

> The parameter is useful for polymorphic cases and when using generics to get typeof(T) in a performant way.
```

### Using <xref:System.Buffers.Text.Utf8Parser> and <xref:System.Buffers.Text.Utf8Formatter>

You can used fast UTF-8-based parsing and formatting methods in your converter logic if your input <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset>
text representations are compliant with one of the "R", "l", "O", or "G"
[standard date and time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings),
or you want to write according to one of these formats. This is much faster than using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` and `DateTime(Offset).ToString

This example shows a custom converter that serializes and deserializes <xref:System.DateTime> values according to
[the "R" standard format](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings#the-rfc1123-r-r-format-specifier):

[!code-csharp[example-showing-utf8-parser-and-formatter](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example2/Program.cs)]

```markdown
> [!NOTE]

> > The "R" standard format will always be 29 characters long.

Reviewer 3: It this the expected output format? I would have thought it would be formatted differently. Why add the `[!NOTE]` if it just renders as plaintext?

https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/datetime/datetime-support-in-system-text-json?branch=pr-en-us-13526
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6527137/62904514-8b478e80-bd1b-11e9-9cf8-e86ed4d8ba04.png)

Author: I suspect the markdown wrapper shouldn’t be there. I’ll check shortly.

| `time-offset`     | `"Z" / time-numoffset`                                     |                      |                                                                                                                 |
| `partial-time`    | `time-hour ":" time-minute ":" time-second [time-secfrac]` |                      |                                                                                                                 |
| `full-date`       | `date-fullyear "-" date-month "-" date-mday`               | 5.2.2.1b             | Extended calendar date                                                                                          |
| `full-time`       | `partial-time time-offset`                                 | 5.3.3 or 5.3.4.2     | 5.3.3 is "UTC of day" while 5.3.4.2 is "Local time of day with the time shift between local time scale and UTC" |
| `date-time`       | `full-date "T" full-time`                                  | 5.4.2.1              | Extended calendar date and time of day                                                                          |

## Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 Profile in <xref:System.Text.Json>

### Parsing

> The extended ISO 8601 profile implemented in System.Text.Json uses these components to define ten levels of date-time granularity:

Reviewer 4: It was a little confusing to see `ten levels` then a numbered list that only goes to 5 until I realized the sub-bullets totaled 10.

1. `full-date` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.2.2.1)
	1. `YYYY-MM-DD`

```markdown
> [!NOTE]
> - 5.2.2.2 "Representations with reduced precision" allows for just YYYY[�-�]MM (a) and just YYYY (b), but we currently don't permit it.
```

2. `full-date "T" time-hour ":" time-minute`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm`

3. `full-date "T" partial-time`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s`

4. `full-date "T" time-hour ":" time-minute time-offset`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mmZ`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

> 5. `date-time` (5.4.2.1)

Reviewer 4: Be consistent with how you reference sections of the spec, above you included the full spec name.  That's relevant to indicate what the number is indicating.
```suggestion
5. `date-time` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1)
```

	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.sZ`
	3. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss("+" / "-")hh":"mm`
	4. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

### Formatting

For formatting, four levels of granularity are defined using the ISO 8601-1:2019:

1. `full-date "T" partial-time`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss` 
	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> without fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Unspecified>

	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s`
	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> with fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Unspecified>

> 2. `date-time (5.4.2.1)`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. `date-time` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1)
```

            return DateTime.Parse(reader.GetString());
        }

        public override void Write(Utf8JsonWriter writer, DateTime value, JsonSerializerOptions options)
        {
            writer.WriteStringValue(value.ToString());
        }
    }

    public class DateTimeOffsetConverter : JsonConverter<DateTimeOffset>
    {
        public override DateTimeOffset Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
        {
            if (reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.String)
            {
                throw new JsonException();
            }

            reader.Read();
            return DateTimeOffset.Parse(reader.GetString());
        }

        public override void Write(Utf8JsonWriter writer, DateTimeOffset value, JsonSerializerOptions options)
        {
            writer.WriteStringValue(value.ToString());
        }
    }
}
```

2. Using `UTF8Parser` and `UTF8Formatter`. This allows you to use fast parsing and formatting methods for Ut8 date-time data that is compliant with one of the [Standard Date and Time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings).

> This is much faster than Example 1.

Reviewer 4: If it's much faster than Example 1 what would lead you to choose one over the other?

Author: I've added some guidance.

---
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia

> ms.author: laakinri

Author: My ms alias.

> ms.author: laakinri

Reviewer 3: Oops, should have realized that.

ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON DateTime"
  - "DateTimeOffset"
  - "Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON Reader, JSON Writer, times"
---
# DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json

The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter>, and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> parse and write <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> text representations according to the extended profile of the ISO 8601-1:2019 format, e.g. 2019-07-26T16:59:57-05:00.

> Date and time data can be serialized with <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>:

Author: Yeah "Date and time" is misguiding in some areas because it doesn't include time span. I've replaced with <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> where it makes sense.

```csharp
var options = new JsonWriterOptions
{
    Indented = true
};

using (var stream = new MemoryStream())
{
    using (var writer = new Utf8JsonWriter(stream, options))
    {
        writer.WriteStartObject();
        writer.WriteString("date", DateTimeOffset.UtcNow);
        writer.WriteNumber("temp", 42);
        writer.WriteEndObject();
    }

    string json = Encoding.UTF8.GetString(stream.ToArray());
    Console.WriteLine(json);
}

// The example displays the following output:
// {
//     "date": "2019-07-26T00:00:00-05:00",
//     "temp": 42
// }
```

To read with <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader>:

```csharp
byte[] utf8Data = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(@"""2019-07-26T00:00:00""");

var json = new Utf8JsonReader(utf8Data, isFinalBlock: true, state: default);
while (json.Read())
{
    if (json.TokenType == JsonTokenType.String)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(json.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime datetime)); // True
        Console.WriteLine(datetime) // 7/26/2019 12:00:00 AM
        Console.WriteLine(json.GetDateTime()); // 7/26/2019 12:00:00 AM
    }
}
```
## Custom support for date and times in `JsonSerializer`

> If you want custom parsing or formatting at the serializer level, you can implement [custom converters](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/36639). Here are a few examples:

Author: I agree.

[!code-csharp[example-showing-datetime-parse](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example1/Program.cs)]

### Using `UTF8Parser` and `UTF8Formatter`.

This allows you to use fast parsing and formatting methods for UTF-8 date and time data that is compliant with one of the [Standard Date and Time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings).
This is much faster than Example 1 and should be used if the input data isn't compliant with the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile but conforms to the "R", "l", "O", or "G" standard format specifiers.

[!code-csharp[example-showing-utf8-parser-and-formatter](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example2/Program.cs)]

### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` as a fallback to the serializers native parsing.

This approach can be used if you generally expect the input date and time data to conform to the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile, but want to have a fallback just in case.

```csharp

> public class DateTimeConverterExample3 : JsonConverter<DateTime>

Author: The other examples are complete samples and this is not - https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/13526#pullrequestreview-266893861

> public class DateTimeConverterExample3 : JsonConverter<DateTime>

Reviewer 3: What would it take to make this a complete sample too? I guess, the question is, why isn't this sample complete?

> public class DateTimeConverterExample3 : JsonConverter<DateTime>

Author: I thought it was repetitive - exact same thing as the first two. But I'll "complete" it when I address your code sample comments.

{

>     public override DateTime Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)

Author: Re https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/13526#discussion_r308886149 - this will complete the sample. Will address in a PR in dotnet/samples.

    {
        if (reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.String)
        {
            throw new JsonException();
        }

>         ReadOnlySpan<byte> valueSpan = reader.ValueSpan;

Author: [Regex.Unescape](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.regularexpressions.regex.unescape?view=netcore-3.0) should work here. Makes this slower but I think it's okay in this example scenario.

```csharp
static DateTime TestReader(string json)
{
    var reader = new Utf8JsonReader(Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(json));
    reader.Read();

    ReadOnlySpan<byte> valueSpan = reader.ValueSpan;
    if (!reader.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime value))
    {
        value = DateTime.Parse(Regex.Unescape(Encoding.UTF8.GetString(valueSpan)));
    }

    return value;
}
```

>         ReadOnlySpan<byte> valueSpan = reader.ValueSpan;

Author: https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/13526#discussion_r308443571 is a good fix.

        if (!reader.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime value))
        {
            value = DateTime.Parse(Encoding.UTF8.GetString(valueSpan));
        }

        return value;
    }

    public override void Write(Utf8JsonWriter writer, DateTime value, JsonSerializerOptions options)
    {
        writer.WriteStringValue(value.ToString());
    }
}
```

## Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 Profile in System.Text.Json

### Date and time components

ISO 8601-1:2019 defines the following components for date and time representations:

> | Component         | Format                                                     | ISO 8601-1:2019 spec | Description                                                                                                     |

Reviewer 3: This table contains helpful info but I wonder if we can sanitize it in some way to avoid spec-specific terms and maybe use terms people who read the dotnet docs might be more familiar with. Like what's done here:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/custom-date-and-time-format-strings

### Support for parsing

The extended ISO 8601 profile implemented in <xref:System.Text.Json> uses these components to define the following levels of date and time granularity:

1. `full-date` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.2.2.1)
	1. `YYYY-MM-DD`

	ISO 8601-1:2019 5.2.2.2 "Representations with reduced precision" allows for just YYYY-MM (a) and just YYYY (b), but neither is supported.

2. `full-date "T" time-hour ":" time-minute`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm`

3. `full-date "T" partial-time`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s`

4. `full-date "T" time-hour ":" time-minute time-offset`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mmZ`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

5. `date-time` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1)
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.sZ`
	3. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss("+" / "-")hh":"mm`
	4. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

Seconds can be omitted according to ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.1.3a "Representations with reduced precision". ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.1.3b allows just specifying the hour, but that representation is not supported.

> ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.14 allows decimal fractions for hours, minutes and seconds. Only second fractions are supported. Lower order components can't follow, i.e. you can have T23.3, but not T23.3:04.

Author: I've removed this sentence.

> There must be one digit, but the maximum number of digits is implementation defined. Up to 16 digits of fractional seconds are supported. While up to 16 fractional digits are allowed, only the first seven are parsed.

Author: I've added an example.

> There must be one digit, but the maximum number of digits is implementation defined. Up to 16 digits of fractional seconds are supported. While up to 16 fractional digits are allowed, only the first seven are parsed.

Author: I've clarified this/added examples.

---
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON DateTime"
  - "DateTimeOffset"
  - "Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON Reader, JSON Writer, times"
---

> 

Reviewer 5: nit-pick, no lines between metadata and the H1 header:
```suggestion
```

[!code-csharp[example-showing-utf8-parser-and-formatter](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example2/Program.cs)]

### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` as a fallback to the serializers native parsing.

This approach can be used if you generally expect the input date and time data to conform to the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile, but want to have a fallback just in case.

```csharp
public class DateTimeConverterExample3 : JsonConverter<DateTime>
{
    public override DateTime Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
    {
        if (reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.String)
        {
            throw new JsonException();
        }

        ReadOnlySpan<byte> valueSpan = reader.ValueSpan;

        if (!reader.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime value))
        {
            value = DateTime.Parse(Encoding.UTF8.GetString(valueSpan));
        }

        return value;
    }

    public override void Write(Utf8JsonWriter writer, DateTime value, JsonSerializerOptions options)
    {
        writer.WriteStringValue(value.ToString());
    }
}
```

## Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 Profile in System.Text.Json

> ### Date and time Components

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Date and time components
```

---
# required/recommended metadata

> title: Datetime and DateTimeOffset Support in System.Text.Json

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset Support in System.Text.Json
```

> description: An overview of how Datetime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
```

author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
ms.topic: [TOPIC TYPE]
ms.prod: [PRODUCT VALUE]
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON DateTime JSON DateTimeOffset"
  - "Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON Reader, JSON Writer, times"

---

> # Datetime and DateTimeOffset Support in System.Text.Json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# DateTime and DateTimeOffset Support in System.Text.Json
```

> The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter>, and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> parse and write <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> text representations according to an extended profile of the ISO 8601-1:2019 format.

Reviewer 6: "an extended" or "the extended"? (IIRC it's named "the extended profile" in the spec)

Reviewer 7: More specifically **the** "basic format" does not include separators between time scale components, the "extended format" (3.1.3.5) includes separators.

> The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter>, and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> parse and write <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> text representations according to an extended profile of the ISO 8601-1:2019 format.

Reviewer: I think this document is currently too abstract and spec heavy. I'm sure there are some people out there that care about the exact ISO 8601 specification but they're a minority. When you say it supports the ISO 8601 format you should then give a nice example: `2008-09-15T15:53:00`.

In this section you should now have code examples. Extremely basic scenarios of working with ISO 8601 text. Serializing it, parsing it, writing it.

## Date and Time Components

> ISO 8601-1:2019 defines the following components for date and time text representations:

Reviewer: Is there somewhere you can link to that already has this information?

Reviewer 7: We can link to the place to buy the spec, but you can't see the content without $.

Reviewer: Ok. IMO this article could be split into two. One article that shows how to use DateTime and DateTimeOffset with the serializer, reader, writer, document model. And how to write JsonConverters to change how dates a processed. And another article that goes in-depth with ISO 8061 and how DateTime/DateTimeOffset are mapped to it.

If you don't want to do that then at least move the spec heavy discussion to the bottom of the article.

| `partial-time`    | `time-hour ":" time-minute ":" time-second [time-secfrac]` |                      |                                                                                                                 |
| `full-date`       | `date-fullyear "-" date-month "-" date-mday`               | 5.2.2.1b             | Extended calendar date                                                                                          |
| `full-time`       | `partial-time time-offset`                                 | 5.3.3 or 5.3.4.2     | 5.3.3 is "UTC of day" while 5.3.4.2 is "Local time of day with the time shift between local time scale and UTC" |
| `date-time`       | `full-date "T" full-time`                                  | 5.4.2.1              | Extended calendar date and time of day                                                                          |

## Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 Profile in <xref:System.Text.Json>

### Parsing

The extended ISO 8601 profile implemented in System.Text.Json uses these components to define the following levels of date-time granularity:

1. `full-date` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.2.2.1)
	1. `YYYY-MM-DD`

> ISO 8601-1:2019 5.2.2.2 "Representations with reduced precision" allows for just YYYY-MM (a) and just YYYY (b), but we currently don't permit it.

Reviewer 6: "currently" makes sense in a code comment, but in official documentation it sounds like "and we're planning on it".

I'd either delete this sentence or replace it with a more declarative one:

```suggestion
ISO 8601-1:2019 5.2.2.2 "Representations with reduced precision" allows for just YYYY-MM (a) and just YYYY (b), but these representations are not supported.
```

2. `full-date "T" time-hour ":" time-minute`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm`

3. `full-date "T" partial-time`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s`

4. `full-date "T" time-hour ":" time-minute time-offset`
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mmZ`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

5. `date-time` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1)
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ`
	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.sZ`
	3. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss("+" / "-")hh":"mm`
	4. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

> "T" is optional per spec, but _only_ when times are used alone. In our case, we're reading out a complete date & time and as such require "T" (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1b).

Reviewer 6: I don't think that this sentence really adds value (again, it is useful as a code comment, but not as a doc).

```suggestion
```

> "T" is optional per spec, but _only_ when times are used alone. In our case, we're reading out a complete date & time and as such require "T" (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1b).

Author: This note has been removed.

> For time, we allow seconds to be omitted per ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.1.3a "Representations with reduced precision". ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.1.3b allows just specifying the hour, but we currently don't permit this.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
For time, we allow seconds to be omitted per ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.1.3a "Representations with reduced precision". ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.1.3b allows just specifying the hour, but that representation is not supported.
```

> Decimal fractions are allowed for hours, minutes and seconds (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.14). We only allow fractions for seconds currently. Lower order components can't follow, i.e. you can have T23.3, but not T23.3:04.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Decimal fractions are allowed for hours, minutes and seconds (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.3.14). We only allow fractions for seconds. Lower order components can't follow, i.e. you can have T23.3, but not T23.3:04.
```

There must be one digit, but the max number of digits is implemenation defined. We currently allow up to 16 digits of fractional seconds only. While we support 16 fractional digits we only parse the first seven,
anything past that is considered a zero. This is to stay compatible with the DateTime implementation which is limited to this resolution.

> We currently don't support leap seconds. See https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/39185.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Leap seconds are not supported.
```

### Formatting

The following levels of granularity are defined for formatting:

1. `full-date "T" partial-time`

> 	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss` 

Reviewer 6: Are these little-h or big-H?   (IIRC hh is 12-hour two-digit and HH is 24-hour two-digit, but maybe that's just .NET and ISO 8601 is 24-hour hh)

Author: ISO 8601 is 24-hour hh.

> 	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> without fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Unspecified>

Reviewer 6: DateTimeOffset doesn't have a DateTimeKind.  So this could use some restructuring to avoid that concept.

	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s`

	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> with fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Unspecified>

2. `date-time` (ISO 8601-1:2019 5.4.2.1)
	1. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ`

> 	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> without fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Utc>

Reviewer 6: This one (and others that aren't DateTimeKind.Unspecified) should indicate that DateTimeOffset actually understands the answer correctly.  And that DateTime does... whatever DateTime does when the specified timezone is neither the local one nor UTC.

	2. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.sZ`

	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> with fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Utc>

	3. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> without fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Local>

	4. `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.s("+" / "-")hh":"mm`

> 	Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> with fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Local>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	  Used to format a <xref:System.DateTime> or <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> with fractional seconds and of kind <xref:System.DateTimeKind.Local?displayProperty=nameWithType>
```

## Custom support for date and times in `JsonSerializer`

If you want custom parsing or formatting at the serializer level, you can implement [custom converters](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/36639). Here are a few examples:

> 1. Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` and `DateTime(Offset).ToString`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` and `DateTime(Offset).ToString`.
```

> This allows you to use .NET's most comprehensive effort at parsing various date-time formats including non-ISO 8601 strings and ISO 8601 formats that don't conform to the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to use .NET's extensive support for parsing various date and time formats, including non-ISO 8601 strings and ISO 8601 formats that don't conform to the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile.
```

> This approach can be used if you can't determine the input date-time formats, but is significantly less performant than using the serializer's native implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach can be used if you can't determine the input date and time format, but it is significantly less performant than using the serializer's native implementation.
```

            Console.WriteLine(Regex.Unescape(resultDateTimeJson));  // "4/10/2008 6:30:00 AM"
        }

        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Parsing non-compliant format as DateTime fails by default.
            try
            {
                ParseDateTimeWithDefaultOptions_Example1();
            }
            catch (JsonException e)
            {
                Console.WriteLine(e.Message); // The JSON value could not be converted to System.DateTime. Path: $ | LineNumber: 0 | BytePositionInLine: 20.
            }

            // Formatting with default options prints according to extended ISO 8601 profile.
            FormatDateTimeWithDefaultOptions();

            // Using converters gives you control over the serializers parsing and formatting.
            ProcessDateTimeWithCustomConverter_Example1();
        }
    }
}

// The example displays the following output:
// The JSON value could not be converted to System.DateTime. Path: $ | LineNumber: 0 | BytePositionInLine: 20.
// "2008-04-10T06:30:00-04:00"
// 4/10/2008 6:30:00 AM
// "4/10/2008 6:30:00 AM"
```

> 2. Using `UTF8Parser` and `UTF8Formatter`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using `UTF8Parser` and `UTF8Formatter`.
```

> This allows you to use fast parsing and formatting methods for UTF-8 date-time data that is compliant with one of the [Standard Date and Time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to use fast parsing and formatting methods for UTF-8 date and time data that is compliant with one of the [standard date and time format strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings).
```

> This is much faster than Example 1 and should be used if the input data isn't compliant with the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile but conforms to the "R", "l", "O", or "G" Standard Format Specifiers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is much faster than Example 1 and should be used if the input data isn't compliant with the Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile but conforms to the "R", "l", "O", or "G" standard format specifiers.
```

            var resultDateTime = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<DateTime>(testDateTimeJson, options);
            Console.WriteLine(resultDateTime); // 7/25/2019 1:36:07 PM

            Console.WriteLine(JsonSerializer.Serialize(DateTime.Parse(testDateTimeStr), options)); // "Thu, 25 Jul 2019 09:36:07 GMT"
        }

        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            // Parsing non-compliant format as DateTime fails by default.
            try
            {
                ParseDateTimeWithDefaultOptions_Example2();
            }
            catch (JsonException e)
            {
                Console.WriteLine(e.Message); // The JSON value could not be converted to System.DateTime. Path: $ | LineNumber: 0 | BytePositionInLine: 31.
            }

            // Using converters gives you control over the serializers parsing and formatting.
            ProcessDateTimeWithCustomConverter_Example2();
        }
    }
}

// The example displays the following output:
// The JSON value could not be converted to System.DateTime.Path: $ | LineNumber: 0 | BytePositionInLine: 31.
// 7/25/2019 1:36:07 PM
// "Thu, 25 Jul 2019 09:36:07 GMT"
```

> 3. Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` as a fallback to the serializers native parsing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` as a fallback to the serializers native parsing.
```

---
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON DateTime"
  - "DateTimeOffset"
  - "Serializer, Utf8"

>   - "JSON Reader, JSON Writer, times"

Reviewer 3: "times" seems like a weird keyword to add here.
What about "date", "time", "JSON"?

I don't know if spacing affects things, in which case, "DateTime" would be good to add separately as well, along with the relevant type names matching exactly ("JsonSerializer, Utf8JsonReader, Ut8fJsonWriter, JsonElement, JsonDocument").

[custom converters](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.text.json.serialization.jsonconverter-1?view=netcore-3.0).
Here are a few examples:

### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` and `DateTime(Offset).ToString`

This allows you to use .NET's extensive support for parsing various <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> text formats,
including non-ISO 8601 strings and ISO 8601 formats that don't conform to the extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile. This approach can be used
if you can't determine the input formats, but it is significantly less performant than using the serializer's native implementation.

[!code-csharp[example-showing-datetime-parse](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example1/Program.cs)]

### Using <xref:System.Buffers.Text.Utf8Parser> and <xref:System.Buffers.Text.Utf8Formatter>

This allows you to use fast UTF-8-based parsing and formatting methods for <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> datathat is compliant
with one of the [Standard Date and Time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings).

> This is much faster than Example 1 and should be used if the input data isn't compliant with the extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile but conforms to the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is much faster than Example 1 and should be used if the input data isn't compliant with the extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile but conforms to one of the
```
```

> "R", "l", "O", or "G" standard format specifiers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"R", "l", "O", or "G" standard format specifiers (specifically "R" in the example).
```

---
title: DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json
description: An overview of how DateTime and DateTimeOffset types are supported in the System.Text.Json library.
ms.technology: dotnet-standard
author: layomia
ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON, Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON DateTime, JSON DateTimeOffset"
  - "DateTime, DateTimeOffset"
  - "JsonSerializer, Utf8JsonReader, Utf8JsonWriter, JsonElement, JsonDocument"
  - "JSON Serializer, JSON Reader, JSON Writer"
  - "Converter, JSON Converter, DateTime Converter"
  - "ISO, ISO 8601, ISO 8601-1:2019"
---
# DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json

The <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader>, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter>,

> and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> parse and write <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset>

Reviewer 3: They aren't all classes (JsonElement is a struct, Utf8JsonReader is a ref struct).

> and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> parse and write <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset>

Author: Going with types.

text representations according to the extended profile of the ISO 8601-1:2019 format, e.g. 2019-07-26T16:59:57-05:00.

<xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> data can be serialized with <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer>:

```csharp
Product p = new Product();
p.Name = "Banana";
p.ExpiryDate = new DateTime(2019, 7, 26);
string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(p);

/// {"Name":"Banana","ExpiryDate":"2019-07-26T00:00:00"}
```

To deserialize:

```csharp
Product p = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Product>(@"{""Name"":""Banana"",""ExpiryDate"":""2019-07-26T00:00:00""}");
Console.WriteLine(p.Name); // Banana
Console.WriteLine(p.ExpiryDate); // 7/26/2019 12:00:00 AM

// With default options, input DateTimes must conform to the extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile.
try
{

> 	var _ = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Product>(@"{""Name"":""Banana"",""ExpiryDate"":""26/07/2019""}");

Reviewer 3: Inconsistent indentation/formatting here (its too deep).

```csharp
byte[] utf8Data = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(@"""2019-07-26T00:00:00""");

var json = new Utf8JsonReader(utf8Data);
while (json.Read())
{
    if (json.TokenType == JsonTokenType.String)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(json.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime datetime));
        // True

        Console.WriteLine(datetime);
        // 7/26/2019 12:00:00 AM

        Console.WriteLine(json.GetDateTime());
        // 7/26/2019 12:00:00 AM
    }
}
```

Reading non-compliant formats will fail:

```csharp
byte[] utf8Data = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(@"""2019/07/26 00:00:00""");

var json = new Utf8JsonReader(utf8Data);
while (json.Read())
{
    if (json.TokenType == JsonTokenType.String)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(json.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime datetime));
        // False

        Console.WriteLine(datetime);
        // 1/1/0001 12:00:00 AM

        var _ = json.GetDateTime();
        // Unhandled exception. System.FormatException: The JSON value is not in a supported DateTime format.
        //     at System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.GetDateTime()
    }
}
```

## Custom support for <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> in `JsonSerializer`

> If you want custom parsing or formatting at the serializer level, you can implement

Reviewer 3: perfoprm -> perform (typo)

ms.author: laakinri
ms.date: 07/22/2019
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "JSON, Serializer, Utf8"
  - "JSON DateTime, JSON DateTimeOffset"
  - "DateTime, DateTimeOffset"
  - "JsonSerializer, Utf8JsonReader, Utf8JsonWriter, JsonElement, JsonDocument"
  - "JSON Serializer, JSON Reader, JSON Writer"
  - "Converter, JSON Converter, DateTime Converter"

>   - "ISO, ISO 8601, ISO 8601-1:2019"

Reviewer 3: Based on @ericstj suggestion here (https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38907#issuecomment-511991953), let's make sure that some of the relevant API docs link to this concept doc.

These are probably good candidates:
https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-api-docs/blob/533a18cbb0ac2d676d2e5edff3d6872b20e0ec87/xml/System.Text.Json/JsonElement.xml#L222
https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-api-docs/blob/533a18cbb0ac2d676d2e5edff3d6872b20e0ec87/xml/System.Text.Json/JsonElement.xml#L255
https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-api-docs/blob/533a18cbb0ac2d676d2e5edff3d6872b20e0ec87/xml/System.Text.Json/Utf8JsonReader.xml#L352
https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-api-docs/blob/533a18cbb0ac2d676d2e5edff3d6872b20e0ec87/xml/System.Text.Json/Utf8JsonReader.xml#L376

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonelement.getdatetime?view=netcore-3.0#System_Text_Json_JsonElement_GetDateTime

And the TryGetX APIs too.

https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-api-docs/blob/533a18cbb0ac2d676d2e5edff3d6872b20e0ec87/xml/System.Text.Json/Utf8JsonWriter.xml#L3952-L3953
https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-api-docs/blob/533a18cbb0ac2d676d2e5edff3d6872b20e0ec87/xml/System.Text.Json/Utf8JsonWriter.xml#L3985-L3986

And the other WriteString(..., DateTime{Offset}) overloads too.

Console.WriteLine(p.Name); // Banana
Console.WriteLine(p.ExpiryDate); // 7/26/2019 12:00:00 AM

> // With default options, input DateTimes must conform to the native implementation of the ISO 8601-1:2019 profile.

Reviewer 3: Why was the "extended" qualifier removed?

Author: reverted

}
```

Given a payload with non-compliant <xref:System.DateTime> representations:

```json
[
    {
        "date": "2013/01/07 00:00:00Z",
        "temp": 23,
    },
    {
        "date": "2013/01/08 00:00:00Z",
        "temp": 28,
    },
    {
        "date": "2013/01/14 00:00:00Z",
        "temp": 8,
    },
]
```

Computing the average will fail:

> ```

Reviewer 3: csharp is missing

```csharp
byte[] utf8Data = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(@"""2019-07-26T00:00:00""");

var json = new Utf8JsonReader(utf8Data);
while (json.Read())
{
    if (json.TokenType == JsonTokenType.String)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(json.TryGetDateTime(out DateTime datetime));
		// True
        

> 		Console.WriteLine(datetime);

Reviewer 3: indentation/formatting issue here

with one of the [Standard Date and Time Format Strings](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings).
This is much faster than Example 1 and should be used if the input data isn't compliant with the extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile but conforms to the
"R", "l", "O", or "G" standard format specifiers.

[!code-csharp[example-showing-utf8-parser-and-formatter](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example2/Program.cs)]

### Using `DateTime(Offset).Parse` as a fallback to the serializers native parsing

This approach can be used if you generally expect the input <xref:System.DateTime> and <xref:System.DateTimeOffset> data to conform to the
extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile, but want to have a fallback just in case.

[!code-csharp[example-showing-datetime-parse-as-fallback](~/samples/snippets/standard/datetime/json/datetime-converter-examples/example3/Program.cs)]

## Extended ISO 8601-1:2019 Profile in System.Text.Json

### Date and time components

The extended ISO 8601-1:2019 profile implemented in <xref:System.Text.Json> defines the following components for

> date and time representations. These components are used to define various levels of date and time granularity

Reviewer 3: "date and time" here should be fixed (like elsewhere)

Author: I've removed "date and time" in the second sentence, but it is appropriate for the first.

|-----------------|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Year            | "yyyy"                      | 0001-9999                                                                       |
| Month           | "MM"                        | 01-12                                                                           |
| Day             | "dd"                        | 01-28, 01-29, 01-30, 01-31 based on month/year                                  |
| Hour            | "HH"                        | 00-23                                                                           |
| Minute          | "mm"                        | 00-59                                                                           |
| Second          | "ss"                        | 00-59                                                                           |
| Second fraction | "FFFFFFF"                   | Minimum of one digit, maximum of 16 digits                                      |
| Time offset     | "K"                         | Either "Z" or "('+'/'-')HH':'mm"                                                |

> | Partial time    | "HH':'mm':'ss[FFFFFFF]"     |                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: Add a description here too, or an example? Same for "Full date"

Author: Description added for both

| Full date       | "yyyy'-'MM'-'dd"            |                                                                                 |
| Full time       | "'Partial time'K"           | UTC of day or Local time of day with the time offset between local time and UTC |

> | Date time       | "'Full date''T''Full time'" | Extended calendar date and time of day                                          |

Reviewer 3: Can you add an example DateTime format? 

Also, I don't see "extended" being used anywhere in https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/custom-date-and-time-format-strings / https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings.

What does it mean?

Author: Example added, "extended" removed.
